Welcome to Extraordinary Experiences, where we hear faith-strengthening stories from our brothers and sisters serving in all different parts of the world.
We're very happy today to have with us Brother Miguel and Sister Numerite Gayang serving at the branch in Venezuela.
They attended the 144th class of Gilead. It's very nice to have you here with us today, welcome.
Thank you.
Venezuela recently has been experiencing serious economic problems.
Can you explain to us, Miguel, just what the situation is presently?
In the past, Venezuela was a normal country, but for some years has been suffering a situation of civil unrest.
Right now, there is a severe shortages of food and medicines that make it very difficult to find the most basic products.
So how do they cope with this challenge?
Well, they are seeking first the kingdom despite the situation.
They are happy, smiling, laughing, sharing everything they have between them.
So we can say that despite their physical poverty, they are more rich than ever in love, faith and generosity.
With an excellent example, in this climate, in these circumstances, how has the preaching work been affected?
Well, in some areas that is very dangerous because it's a lot of violence in the street.
But it's amazing to see how, even in this situation, they have the courage to go to share the good news to the people,
because they know that people really need to listen the message in this moment.
During the first months of this service year, 2,000 publishers get baptized.
And we have in the country 33,000 regular pioneers.
That's remarkable. This is such a spirit, a pioneer spirit.
No, Marie, what trials of our brothers and sisters have affected you personally?
Well, the suffering of one family really affected me.
First, men came to the kingdom hall and stole all the belongings of the brothers and the car of one brother of that family.
One month later, the same men came to the kingdom hall and they shot the father in a leg.
Because this situation, the sister, the mother was very nervous and the family decided to move and to left the country.
But when they were preparing, they'd documentation.
The mother was kicked up. And for days later, she was killed.
When I heard that, I felt so bad, so discouraged.
But that same week came, we went to the convention, regional convention, and was so amazing to see the brother who lost his wife.
That same week, given a talk, he was there speaking with the serenity about the experiences of Job.
It showed me that Jehovah was helping them with his Holy Spirit and also was helping us through them to fight the situation.
Yes, and I'm sure this is just one of many such situations in Venezuela.
How would you say Jehovah is helping the brothers to cope and you to cope with this crisis?
Frankly, the situation sometimes looks very, very scary.
But thanks to Gilead, we don't have fear to return, not because we are so special or so strong.
But if we have Jehovah with us, there is no reason to fear.
And we want to transmit these feelings to our beloved brothers.
Thank you.
Once in class, the instructor was telling us how important is Joey?
And how can we face the situation in our assignments?
And he said that only because the joy of Jehovah is our stronghold.
In that moment, I had to cry.
I immediately thought about the brothers and sisters in my congregation, those families who have faced so many difficult things.
How can they face that situation?
How they can be in the kingdom hall?
Is my name sharing what they have?
How? How they can be like these in this difficult time?
It's because the joy of Jehovah is our stronghold.
That's a beautiful point number. Thank you very much.
And again, we thank you both very, very much for sharing your experiences with us today.
Thank you.